Documentation for new features in YDB Java Topic SDK (#3158)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/reference/ydb-sdk/topic.md

          Message.newBuilder()
                  .addMetadataItem(new MetadataItem("meta-key", "meta-value".getBytes()))
                  .addMetadataItem(new MetadataItem("another-key", "value".getBytes()))
                  .build()
  ```

  While reading, metadata can be received from a `Message` with `getMetadataItems()` method:

  ```java
  Message message = reader.receive();
  List<MetadataItem> metadata = message.getMetadataItems();
  ```

{% endlist %}

### Write in transaction {#write-tx}

{% list tabs %}

- Java (sync)

  [Example on GitHub](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb-java-examples/blob/develop/ydb-cookbook/src/main/java/tech/ydb/examples/topic/transactions/TransactionWriteSync.java)

  Transaction can be set in `SendSettings` of `send` method while sending a message.
  Such message will be written on transaction commit.

  ```java
  // creating session in table service
  Result<Session> sessionResult = tableClient.createSession(Duration.ofSeconds(10)).join();
  if (!sessionResult.isSuccess()) {
      logger.error("Couldn't get session from pool: {}", sessionResult);
      return; // retry or shutdown
  }
  Session session = sessionResult.getValue();

>   // creating transaction in table service
>   // this transaction is not yet active and has no id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // creating a transaction in the table service
  // this transaction is not yet active and has no id
```

>   TableTransaction transaction = session.createNewTransaction(TxMode.SERIALIZABLE_RW);

Reviewer: Probably, other transaction modes aren't supported here? It is worth mentioning if that's the case.

Author: All existing tx modes are supported. The most common one was chosen just to showcase how transactions and topics interact

Reviewer: @pnv1 so writing to topics is allowed even for read-only transactions? if that's the case, it requires even more explanation on how this works

Author: I've been told that only serializable RW transactions are supported by topic service on server size atm. So your assumption was correct. I'll add this information to this documentation

>   // do something else in transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // do something else in the transaction
```

  transaction.executeDataQuery("SELECT 1").join();

>   // now transaction is active and has id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // now the transaction is active and has an id
```

  // analyzeQueryResultIfNeeded();

  writer.send(
          Message.newBuilder()

>                   .setData(messageString.getBytes())

Reviewer: Maybe let's make this more realistic and do `SELECT "Hello, world!";` above and then send this string to a topic?

                  .build(),
          SendSettings.newBuilder()
                  .setTransaction(transaction)
                  .build(),

>           timeoutSeconds,

Reviewer: It looks like this variable hasn't been defined.

          TimeUnit.SECONDS
  );

  // flush to wait until all messages reach server
  writer.flush();

  Status commitStatus = transaction.commit().join();
  analyzeCommitStatus(commitStatus);
  ```

  Transaction requirements:

>   It should be an active transaction (that has id) from one of YDB services. I.e. Table or Query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It should be an active transaction (that has an id) from one of {{ ydb-short-name }} services. I.e., Table or Query.
```

>   It should be an active transaction (that has id) from one of YDB services. I.e. Table or Query.

Reviewer: this could use links to more information about these services

Author: We don't have QueryService documentation yet and the is no documentation about Table Service overall, just particular calls

Reviewer: @pnv1 at least to their grpc definitions then

Author: I don't see any use of it, actually. I'd better add links to TableTransaction and QueryTransaction in SDK if you don't mind. Makes more sense for me

  Such message will be written on transaction commit.

  ```java
  // creating session in table service
  Result<Session> sessionResult = tableClient.createSession(Duration.ofSeconds(10)).join();
  if (!sessionResult.isSuccess()) {
      logger.error("Couldn't get session from pool: {}", sessionResult);
      return; // retry or shutdown
  }
  Session session = sessionResult.getValue();
  // creating transaction in table service
  // this transaction is not yet active and has no id
  TableTransaction transaction = session.createNewTransaction(TxMode.SERIALIZABLE_RW);

  // do something else in transaction
  transaction.executeDataQuery("SELECT 1").join();
  // now transaction is active and has id
  // analyzeQueryResultIfNeeded();

  try {
      // Blocks until the message is put into sending buffer
      writer.send(Message.newBuilder()
                              .setData(messageString.getBytes())
                              .build(),
                      SendSettings.newBuilder()
                              .setTransaction(transaction)
                              .build())
              .whenComplete((result, ex) -> {
                  if (ex != null) {

>                       logger.error("Exception while sending message: ", ex);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                      logger.error("Exception while sending a message: ", ex);
```

                  } else {
                      switch (result.getState()) {
                          case WRITTEN:
                              WriteAck.Details details = result.getDetails();
                              logger.info("Message was written successfully, offset: " + details.getOffset());
                              break;
                          case ALREADY_WRITTEN:
                              logger.info("Message was already written");
                              break;
                          default:
                              break;
                      }
                  }
              })

>               // Waiting for message to reach server before transaction commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              // Waiting for the message to reach the server before committing the transaction
```

              .join();
  } catch (QueueOverflowException exception) {

>       logger.error("Queue overflow exception while sending message{}: ", index, exception);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      logger.error("Queue overflow exception while sending a message{}: ", index, exception);
```

>       // Send queue is full. Need retry with backoff or skip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Send queue is full. Need to retry with backoff or skip
```

  }

  Status commitStatus = transaction.commit().join();

>   analyzeCommitStatus(commitStatus);

Reviewer: HHow exactly is it supposed to be analyzed?

Author: It's out of the scope in terms of interaction with topics.
And too obvious. Committed successfully -- good. Failed to commit -- return or retry

  ```

  Transaction requirements:

>   It should be an active transaction (that has id) from one of YDB services. I.e. Table or Query.

Reviewer: These requirements are probably the same across all SDKs and thus could be below, outside of this tabs block.

- Java

>   Starting offset for reading in Java can be set only for AsyncReader.
>   In `StartPartitionSessionEvent` callback `StartPartitionSessionSettings` with desired ReadOffset can be passed to `confirm` method.
>   Offset that should be considered as committed can be set with `setCommittedOffset`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The starting offset for reading in Java can only be set for `AsyncReader`.
  In `StartPartitionSessionEvent`, a `StartPartitionSessionSettings` object with the desired ReadOffset can be passed to the `confirm` method.
  The offset that should be considered as committed can be set with the`setCommittedOffset` method.
```

  ```java
  @Override
  public void onStartPartitionSession(StartPartitionSessionEvent event) {
      event.confirm(StartPartitionSessionSettings.newBuilder()
              .setReadOffset(lastReadOffset)

>               .setCommitOffset(lastCommitOffset)

Reviewer: it's not clear from this example what data type should be used for these offsets

              .build());
  }
  ```

  The `setReadFrom` setting is used for reading only messages with write timestamps no less than the given one.

{% endlist %}

> ### Reading without a Consumer {#no-consumer}
> Usually reading progress is saved on server within each Consumer. Though such progres can not be saved if a reader is created without a `Consumer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reading without a Consumer {#no-consumer}

Reading progress is usually saved on a server for each Consumer. However, such progress can't be saved if a reader is created without a specified `Consumer`.
```

{% list tabs %}

- Java

>   To read without a Consumer, `withoutConsumer()` method should be called explicitly on `ReaderSettings` Builder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To read without a Consumer, the `withoutConsumer()` method should be called explicitly on the `ReaderSettings` builder:
```

  ```java
  ReaderSettings settings = ReaderSettings.newBuilder()
          .withoutConsumer()
          .addTopic(TopicReadSettings.newBuilder()
                  .setPath(TOPIC_NAME)
                  .build())
          .build();
  ```

>   In this case reading progress on server will be lost on PartitionSession restart.
>   To avoid reading from the beginning each time, starting offsets should be set each time on `PartitionSession` start:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this case, reading progress on the server will be lost on the `PartitionSession` restart.
  To avoid reading from the beginning each time, starting offsets should be set on each `PartitionSession` start:
```

  ```java
  @Override
  public void onStartPartitionSession(StartPartitionSessionEvent event) {
      event.confirm(StartPartitionSessionSettings.newBuilder()

>               .setReadOffset(lastReadOffset) // last offset read by client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              .setReadOffset(lastReadOffset) // the last offset read by this client
```

              .build());
  }
  ```

{% endlist %}

> ### Reading in transaction {#read-tx}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reading in a transaction {#read-tx}
```

{% list tabs %}

- Java (sync)

  [Example on GitHub](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb-java-examples/blob/develop/ydb-cookbook/src/main/java/tech/ydb/examples/topic/transactions/TransactionReadSync.java)

>   Transaction can be set in `ReceiveSettings` for `receive` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A transaction can be set in `ReceiveSettings` for the `receive` method:
```

  ```java
  Message message = reader.receive(ReceiveSettings.newBuilder()
          .setTransaction(transaction)
          .build());
  ```

>   Such received message will be committed with this transaction. And shouldn't be committed directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A message received this way will be automatically committed with the provided transaction and shouldn't be committed directly.
```

>   `receive` method sends `sendUpdateOffsetsInTransaction` request on server to link message offset with this transaction and blocks until response is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `receive` method sends the `sendUpdateOffsetsInTransaction` request on the server to link the message offset with this transaction and blocks until a response is received.
```

>   Transaction requirements:

Reviewer: Given the same requirements for multiple features/tabs blocks, it's better to put them into an include file to avoid copy-paste.

Reviewer: example of an include: https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/main/ydb/docs/en/core/operations/query_plans_optimization.md?plain=1

  It should be an active transaction (that has id) from one of YDB services. I.e. Table or Query.

- Java (async)

  [Example on GitHub](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb-java-examples/blob/develop/ydb-cookbook/src/main/java/tech/ydb/examples/topic/transactions/TransactionReadAsync.java)

>   In `onMessages` callback one or more messages can be linked with transaction.
>   To do that request `reader.updateOffsetsInTransaction` should be called. And transaction should not be committed untill response is received.
>   This method needs partition offsets list as a parameter.
>   Such list can be constructed manually or using helper method `getPartitionOffsets()` that `Message` and `DataReceivedEvent` both provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the `onMessages` callback, one or more messages can be linked with a transaction.
  To do that request `reader.updateOffsetsInTransaction` should be called. And transaction should not be committed until a response is received.
  This method needs a partition offsets list as a parameter.
  Such a list can be constructed manually or using the helper method `getPartitionOffsets()` that `Message` and `DataReceivedEvent` both provide.
```

>   ```java

Reviewer: some of the comments above apply here as well

  @Override
  public void onMessages(DataReceivedEvent event) {
      for (Message message : event.getMessages()) {
          // creating session in table service
          Result<Session> sessionResult = tableClient.createSession(Duration.ofSeconds(10)).join();
          if (!sessionResult.isSuccess()) {
              logger.error("Couldn't get session from pool: {}", sessionResult);
              return; // retry or shutdown
          }
          Session session = sessionResult.getValue();
          // creating transaction in table service
          // this transaction is not yet active and has no id
          TableTransaction transaction = session.createNewTransaction(TxMode.SERIALIZABLE_RW);

          // do something else in transaction
          transaction.executeDataQuery("SELECT 1").join();
          // now transaction is active and has id
          // analyzeQueryResultIfNeeded();

          Status updateStatus = reader.updateOffsetsInTransaction(transaction,
                          message.getPartitionOffsets(), new UpdateOffsetsInTransactionSettings.Builder().build())

>                   // Do not commit transaction without waiting for updateOffsetsInTransaction result to avoid race condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  // Do not commit a transaction without waiting for updateOffsetsInTransaction result to avoid a race condition
```

                  .join();
          if (!updateStatus.isSuccess()) {

>               logger.error("Couldn't update offsets in transaction: {}", updateStatus);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              logger.error("Couldn't update offsets in a transaction: {}", updateStatus);
```
